Morty: I-I'm just trying to figure out why you would do this. Why anyone would do this.
Pickle Rick: The reason anyone would do this is, if they could, which they can't, would be because they could, which they can't.
[Beth and Summer enter the garage from the house. Beth is wearing a midi mahogany pencil dress while Summer is wearing a shorter pink dress with a hot pink jacket, along with black stockings and black heels]
Beth: Morty, we have to get going, or we're gonna be late. Where's your grandpa?
Pickle Rick: Right here, sweetie. I'm a pickle!
Beth: What?! Why would you -- Look, we're running late. We have to go.
Pickle Rick: Where are you guys going?
Beth: We have an appointment downtown that was set a week ago and agreed upon by everyone, including you.
Pickle Rick: Oh, my God. Beth, oh, it totally slipped my mind. Geez, oh, man. I'm a pickle. I mean, I don't know if I can, ooh, geez.
Morty: Rick, did you do this on purpose to get out of family counseling?
Beth: Morty!
Pickle Rick: It's okay, Beth. I understand Morty's suspicion. I've misled him before. Morty, turn me so we're making eye contact.
[Morty turns Pickle Rick's face so that it is facing him]
Morty, I assure you, I would never "find a way" to "get out of" family therapy. I hope my lack of fingers doesn't prevent the perception of my air quotes.
Summer: Can't you just turn yourself back into a human?
Pickle Rick: Great question, Summer. The unfortunate answer is I did this to challenge myself. And it could take hours or even days before I'm able to figure out how to return to human form. But, I mean, you know, your mom could put me in a purse or a pocket, you know, if she really needs me to go.
Beth: Nobody needs anything! Okay, it's fine. I mean, you should just stay here and figure out how to stop being a pickle, okay?
Morty: Hey, Rick, why is there a syringe of mysterious fluid hanging directly over you? Also, why is the string attached to it running through a pair of scissors attached to a timer? And why is the time set to 10 minutes from now, exactly when we would have left for therapy?
Pickle Rick: Well, Morty, if you know must know, the syringe is completely unrelated to this discussion, and, therefore, it does not warrant further explanation.
[Beth cuts off the syringe and takes it]
Beth: Enough. Kids, it's time to go. We don't want to be late.
[Beth puts the syringe in her purse]
Pickle Rick: W-w-what are you doing there, Beth? What are you doing there, sweetie?
Beth: Well, I mean, you don't want to get pierced by a needle full of liquid unrelated to your situation. How's that gonna help?
Pickle Rick: Can't argue with that.
Beth: Great. We'll see you later.
[Beth, Summer, and Morty enter the car.]
Pickle Rick: Hey, hey, be careful with that. It's for something else. It's really important, so don't break it.
[Beth drives away with Summer and Morty. They all exit.]
Pickle Rick: Okay, I may have fucked up here. Dup, ap, ap, pap, ut, dah, pap, pap, pap, pah. T-t-tah, tah. [clicks tongue]
Izzy walks in through the open garage door and jumps onto Rick's work bench. She sniffs around]
Pickle Rick: Oh, great. Stupid cat.
[Izzy sniffs Pickle Rick and hisses]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! I know what it looks like to you, Izzy, but I'm not a snake! I've seen the YouTube videos, I know cats are scared of cucumbers and pickles because they think they're snakes. I'm not a snake! I'm a pickle, I'm a pickle!
[Izzy bats at Pickle Rick and knocks him off of the work bench, causing him to roll down the driveway]
Pickle Rick: Whoa! Oh! Whoa, whoa, whoa!
[Pickle Rick is directly facing the sky]
Pickle Rick: Oh, crap, that sun is bright.
[Pickle Rick begins to sweat]
Pickle Rick: Okay, come on. This can't really be the way I go out. This is the mega-genius equivalent of dying on the toilet.
[Pickle Rick starts to shrivel up]
Pickle Rick: So... hot. This is how I'm gonna die.
[Thunder can be heard and the shadow of a cloud appears overhead. It starts to rain. Pickle Rick stops shriveling]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, moisture.
[The rain gets heavy and it begins to flood]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, the moisture! Dial it back, God! Dial it back a little bit here!
[Pickle Rick starts rolling down the road]
Pickle Rick: Oh! Oh!
[Pickle Rick rolls towards a sewer grate]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God! Perpendicular, perpendicular!
[Pickle Rick rolls into the sewer grate and falls into the sewer]
Pickle Rick: Oh, SHIIIIIT!!! Oh! Oh! Oh!
[Pickle Rick hits many pipes before eventually falling onto a solid surface. There are bugs crawling around. One bug walks up to a pile of dirt. Pickle Rick bites his lip and pickle juice comes out. The bug turns around]
Pickle Rick: Come on. That's it.
[The bug walks towards Pickle Rick]
Pickle Rick: Come get this delicious brine.
[The bug is in front of Pickle Rick. Pickle Rick bites on its head and squeezes it until the bug dies.]
Pickle Rick: Aah! Come on! Come on, motherfucker! Come on!
[Pickle Rick licks off the top of the bug's head, revealing its brain. He then licks part of the brain and the bug's leg moves. He rolls onto the bug and licks its brain, moving its legs forward and moving him forward with it]
Pickle Rick: Yes!
[Transition to Beth, Summer, and Morty sitting in a waiting room outside of Dr. Wong's therapy office. Beth is reading a magazine, while Summer sits with her head resting on her fist. The door to her office reads: "Dr. WONG / FAMILY THERAPY / COPROPHRAGIA RECOVERY". There is a motivational picture of a man eating a hot dog which reads "COURAGE" underneath it.]
Summer: How is this even family therapy if Dad's not invited and Grandpa won't come?
Morty: Yeah, and what's courageous about eating a hot dog?
Beth: It's nobody's choice to be here, you knobs. The family was told to get counseling by your principal, even though it's not the family that was huffing pottery glaze in the art room and desk wetting in history class.
Mr. Goldenfold enters through Dr. Wong's door.
Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, the Smith family, minus a dad. You're patients of Dr. Wong, too?
Beth: Temporarily. By order of the school.
Mr. Goldenfold: Me too. How long have you all been eating poop?
Summer: We... have never... eaten poop.
Mr. Goldenfold: Uh, me, neither. Say, where did my family get off to?
[Mr. Goldenfold exits. Dr. Wong opens her door and enters the waiting room]
Dr. Wong: Smith family, I'm Dr. Wong. Come on in.
[Beth, Summer, and Morty exit the waiting room and enter Dr. Wong's office. Dr. Wong flips the motivational image over to another motivational image of a nuclear family which reads "DEDICATION". Transition to Beth, Morty, Summer, and Dr. Wong sitting down in Dr. Wong's office.]
Dr. Wong: I was told there was a grandpa that might be joining us?
Beth: He got wrapped up in an experiment. He's a scientist. Like, legit, like on an inter-galactic, sci-fi level. His work is very --
Morty: He turned himself into a pickle.
Beth: Morty, Mom's talking. I'm sorry, I suppose that's a good segue into our little discipline cases here.
Dr. Wong: Does Grandpa turn himself into a pickle a lot?
Beth: What? No, what kind of question is that?
Dr. Wong: The kind that wasn't designed to attack or hurt you in any way.
Beth: Oh, Jesus Christ, one of these. No, my father has never turned himself into a pickle before. He's unpredictable and eccentric. The whole family is. Speaking of which...
[Beth turns towards Summer and Morty]
Dr. Wong: Okay, let's open things up to the whole family, and let me ask this. Why do we think Grandpa turned himself into a pickle?
[Beth rolls her eyes. Transition to Pickle Rick, who has attached the bug's limbs to his pickle body and has managed to use them to move. He is looking through a grate, and is rubbing the end of one of the bug arms against one of the bars]
Pickle Rick: Wow. Ugh.
[A rat appears behind the grate and starts scratching at Pickle Rick, screeching]
Pickle Rick: Hey, listen, I know this is your world not mine. The sooner I can get out, the sooner I can go back to taking big craps, and you can go back to subsisting on them.
[The rat breaks open one of the bars and continues to scratch. Pickle Rick starts to walk backwards.]
Pickle Rick: You are one driven rat. Could you be a little more driven? To the right.
[Pickle Rick scratches at a rope which is attached to a bug's arms which is holding a razor that it lets go of which is propelled upwards which breaks a rubber band which is tied to a sharp broken bottle which falls on the rat's head and chops it off, killing the rat]
[Pickle Rick picks up the rat's head]
Pickle Rick: Yes, yes, yes! Come on, come on, come on! Fresh, fresh, fresh!
[A mischief of rats appears behind the bars, also scratching at Pickle Rick, who is not in their range.]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, was this your friend? Don't worry, he died doing what he loved, being a dumb fucking rat.
[Pickle Rick puts the rat's head onto a bottle cap which starts a machine which lifts him up and takes off his bug limbs. The machine then splits open the rat head and rips out its brain, then puts Pickle Rick down and begins nailing the rat's body parts to Pickle Rick's pickle body. It then sticks a needle into the brain which connects it to the limbs. Pickle Rick runs towards the rats and begins killing them.]
Pickle Rick: Oh, yeah! Aaaah!
[He takes out a machines on his wrists which are loaded with screws. He kills some of the rats. The screws disappear and x-acto blade pop out. He kills more rats. Transition to Dr. Wong's office.]
Beth: I didn't say my father is perfect, I said his work is important.
Summer: And she's saying what's important is that Grandpa lied to you to get out of coming here.
Beth: Oh, he did not!
Dr. Wong: Let's do an experiment here. I get the impression this family values science. So raise your hand if you feel certain you know what was in the syringe.
[No one raises their hand.]
Raise your hand if you know for certain the syringe does not contain anti-pickle serum.
[Beth begins to raise her hand but stops herself.]
Beth, your hand did a little thing there.
Beth: Do you really not see what's happening here?
Dr. Wong: Tell me.
Beth: Well, Dr. Wong -- by the way, racist name -- obviously, Morty and Summer are seizing on your arbitrary pickle obsession as an end run around what was supposed to be their therapy.
Dr. Wong: Oh, I think this pickle incident is a better path than any other to the heart of your family's dysfunction. I think it's possible that you and your father have a very specific dynamic. I don't think it's one that rewards emotion or vulnerability. I think it may punish them. I think it's possible that dynamic eroded your marriage, and is infecting your kids with a tendency to misdirect their feelings.
[A short pause]
Beth: Fuck you.
Morty and Summer, in unison: Mom!
Beth: Fuck both of you, too.
[Transition to Pickle Rick, fighting a much larger grey rat and beating it up.]
Pickle Rick: By the way, you might notice that in spite of your numerous distinctive features, I never gave you a name like Scar or Stripe or Goliath. That's because, to me, you aren't special.
[Pickle Rick pins the rat to the wall with some screws.]
You were special to rats. Now they're dead. I guess it was me you should have impressed.
[Pickle Rick slices open the rat's stomach with his x-acto blade.]
God damn it, I love myself.
[Pickle Rick walks up to a pipe above him. His wrist machines fall off and are replaced with a jet pack. He pulls a hood over his head with a rat's face on it. He turns on the jet pack and flies out of the pipe and out of a toilet.]
Pickle Rick: Pickle Riiick!